Let's revisit Multi-Channel Funnel reports or MCF.
The MCF reports in Google Analytics start to take
us in the direction of multi-touch attribution.
They don't get us all the way there like the attribution models comparison report will,
but they start to let us see the way
our multi-channel marketing efforts overlap and support one another.
They allow us to start looking at things like assisted conversions,
impression assisted conversions, and if we have
the data to support it, conversion padding.
They let us start playing with the look-back windows in our data
and so they can be very illuminating into our marketing programs.
Let's take a look in the Google Analytics interface
at those Multi-Channel Funnels reports.
To access Multi-Channel Funnels reports,
I'm simply going to go to the conversions drop down,
look for Multi-Channel Funnels,
and we'll start with the overview section.
Here, we can familiarize ourselves with
the basic configuration controls for the Multi-Channel Funnel reports.
I could select conversion type and in this case,
I recommend changing this conversion selection to include
only a single conversion type per analysis as I've done
here so that you make sure you're not doing things like comparing a purchase
completed with a conversion defined as something like a user registration.
While both actions may be important,
you don't necessarily want to blend them in terms of
your analysis of what is driving those conversions.
So, you really do want to look at them separately.
In this case, I'm looking at e-commerce transactions.
You can also decide what type of interactions you would
like to include in your Multi-Channel Funnels reports.
In this case, I want to see everything.
I can also change the look-back window.
So, if I have a product that is expensive and is a considered purchase,
I might want to push this out to the limit of 90 days.
It's going to attribute conversion activities to touch
points going back 90 days prior to the conversion event.
This can be very helpful especially if I want to see the overlap between
different marketing channels and how they interact to drive conversions.
I can see my last non-direct conversions,
I can also see click assisted conversions,
I can see impression assisted conversions,
and also rich media assisted conversions if I have them.
For my display impressions where somebody saw an ad but didn't actually click through it,
that could still obviously impact conversion activity on my website.
I can also see the multi-channel overlap between channels visualized in the Venn diagram.
It can be a handy reference for us to see how
important channels overlap and interact to drive conversions.
In some cases, quite a lot,
and in some cases,
not very much at all.
To start seeing the power of the Multi-Channel Funnels,
we start digging into the specific reports.
In this case, let's look at assisted conversions for a moment.
The assisted conversions report is going to move us even
closer to the multi-touch attribution mindset,
and it's going to start showing me my channel performance.
In this case, I like to use
the default channel grouping because that's what I use in other reports.
The report is going to default to the Multi-Channel Funnel channel groupings which
will not include specific customizations you've made to your default channel grouping.
So, just keep in mind that you'll want to use the appropriate
channel grouping for your specific reporting purposes.
I can start to see how certain channels may or may
not drive a lot of value in terms of last click conversions,
but maybe driving a lot of value in terms of assisted conversions,
and some channels have a certain balance of each.
But in this case,
nearly $665,000 in conversion value
was driven by assisted conversions from the referral channel,
and only 409,000 from last click or direct conversion value for the referral channel.
So, most of the value of that channel is coming in the form of
conversion assists and not inconsiderable amount of
conversions from the last click or direct conversions.
When we look at the standard acquisitions reporting,
some channels perform rather poorly in terms of conversion performance.
So, if we get stuck in the last click mentality,
we fail to see the full value of the channel
and what it's driving in terms of support for other channels.
Here, we can see that display is having a much more impact than it would appear just from
the last click or direct conversion value with $6,200 in assisted conversions.
Paid search as well,
almost $15,000 in assisted conversion value
and just $3,800 in last click conversion value.
In fact, because of the dependency on the GA cookie or user ID,
there are in reality always more assists than GA can possibly report.
We can also take it a step further into the top conversion paths report.
This reporting allows us to see
the unique conversion paths for our website in a given time period.
So, it allows us to see for example,
I have 542 conversions worth $116,000 in conversion value,
where the channel path was a referral session followed by a direct session.
In and of itself, that's probably not the most illuminating data we can see,
but if we filter to, for example,
conversion paths that include
display and we can see some more interesting conversion data.
Now, we can see we have users that
are taking very sophisticated journeys to get to the point of conversion.
Here's somebody who was brought to the site
originally by a direct session followed by an organic search,
a display click, organic search,
two more direct sessions,
a paid search click,
an organic search click,
followed by four more direct sessions to drive conversion value of $600 on the website.
So, you can start to analyze and get insights into the way that
users really do interact with a variety of media,
in a variety of formats before they ever click the buy button.